# Ruby!

Time to learn your second programming language!

Ruby is truly cool -- at its best, it's almost like programming in English!

We're going to use some of Shorty's videos to

1. install Ruby and Rails

2. Get a preview of the basics before Liza's lesson tomorrow.

Video playlist (authored by Shorty) is at:
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLw1xVKFbouelFRXAxAHq5DP2WdSoVoXv6

These videos are designed for students coming to Ruby from JavaScript, like you. As you watch them, keep in mind that a lot of things in Ruby and JS are very similar, but there are subtle differences that can trip you up. (E.g., Ruby "hashes" look a lot like JS "objects" -- but they're not the same!)

1. Part 1: Environment
 Watch this video, and follow along to install `rbenv`, the latest version of Ruby (v.2.3.1), and Rails. Note that in the video, Shorty installs Ruby v.2.2.0 -- the video is 10 months old, so that was the current version of Ruby then. Make sure you install 2.3.1.
  * `gem install pry`
  * `gem install rails`
  * `gem install pg -- --with-pg-config=/usr/local/bin/pg_config`
  * `rbenv rehash` after everything

2. Part 2A: Variables and Datatypes.

3. Part 2B: Methods on Datatypes

4. Part 3A: Methods

5. Part 3B: The options hash

6. Part 4: Conditionals

7. Part 5: Loops

8. Part 6a: Each and Map

Total running time of all of these is 1 hour, 12 minutes and change.

We are going to learn Ruby FAST: My recommendation is ***NOT*** to blow these videos off! Watch them and take notes! If you invest the time early, you will be *blown away* by how quickly you can pick up your second programming language. Just like with real languages, each extra one you learn gets easier and easier....
