# Ruby OOP RPG OMG WOW LOL

Let's build out the class structure of a Role-Playing Game using Ruby.

In a typical Role-Playing Game (RPG):

* Each being (whether a player character controlled by the user, a non-player character [NPC] controlled by the computer, or even a non-sentient being like a wolf or a deer) has the following characteristics:
  - a species
  - a gender
  - a level (which should have a default value of 1)
  - a hit point multiplier (which should have a default value of your choice).
  - maximum hit points value (defaults to level * hit point multiplier)
  - current hit points value (defaults to maximum hit points at creation)
  - The way hit points (hp) work is this:
    * each being has a max hit points which is equal to their level * their multiplier. So each time they "level up", they gain that number of hit points added to their max (If I'm level 5 and my hit point multiplier is 8, my maximum hit points value is 40; if I'm level 7 with a multiplier of 10, my max hit points value is 70, and so on)

* Think about how you would handle the above, and write a Being class. In addition to the above, the Being class should have a *class* variable named `@@count`. Each time a new Being is created, the @@count should be incremented by one, and that new being should get an `@id` instance variable equal to the `@@count` (so that the first Being gets an @id of 1, the second, an @id of two and so on).

* The Being class should have a CLASS method on it called `count` that returns the current count (the number of Beings in the game). This should be a class method, remember, not an instance method!

Of the various characteristics listed above, which should have attr_reader associated with them so that you can access them? Do that....

Your Being class will also need the following Instance methods:
  * `take_damage (hp)`: should decrease the Being's hit points by the amount of hp passed into the method. If the new hit points value is <= 0, it should call it's own `die` method (see below)
  * `die`: for now, this method should just puts a dying message: `"curse you all, I'm dead!"` or the silliness of your choice!
  * `heal (hp)`: this method should increase the Being's hit points by the amount of hit points passed into the method. It should NOT be able to increase the hit points past the Being's max hit points level.
  * `level_up`: this method should (1) increase the Being's `@level` by 1, (2) increase the Being's max hit points by its hit point multiplier, and (3) set the Being's current hit points to its new max hit points (when you level up, you automatically get healed of all damage)

Now, let's work on the sentient beings. For now let's build out the NPC class for sentient beings that the computer controls.

The `NPC` class should inherit from `Being`.

Since NPCs are sentient characters they should also have an `@name` property assigned when they're initialized. The NPC's `initialize` method also has to call the Being initialize method when it's called. Reminder: the `super` keyword might be helpful ....

Plus, NPCs probably *do* things, right? I.e., they have what's usually called a `class`: wizard, fighter, thief, etc. Since 'class' is a special word in Ruby, why don't we call it a `profession` here. If a profession isn't specified when the NPC is created (with `NPC.new`), have it randomly `sample` an array of possible professions. E.g., `["fighter", "thief", "wizard", "ranger", "baker", "butcher", "candlestick maker", "whatever other professions you might think of"]`

NPCs also probably *have* things, don't they? They should probably have an *inventory* (default to an empty array) and a *bankroll* (default to some amount of cash -- maybe a random number between, say, 10 and 20?).

OK, let's make stuff slightly more functional, and start to give these objects the ability to interact with one another. First off we need things we can put in our inventory. So let's create an entirely NEW class called `Item`.

For now, it'll be a very simple class. It's `initialize` should just take two parameters, its name and its value. So
```ruby
sword = Item.new "A sparkling new longsword", 50
# => a new Item with those parameters
teacup = Item.new "A chipped teacup", 1
# => ditto
```

Now that we can make things in our game for our characters to interact with, we need to give them the ability to do so:

Write `buy` and `sell` methods for your NPC class.
  * `buy` should check to see if the NPC's bankroll is sufficient to buy the item passed in; if it is, it should subtract the cost of the item (its value) from the bankroll and. If the buyer doesn't have enough money for the transaction it should `return` something appropriate of your choice (e.g., `false` or `"Not enough money to buy #{item.name}"` or whatever).
  * `sell` should check the NPC's `@inventory` to see if the item to be sold is actually in there (you can't sell what you don't own!). If it is, it should add the value of the item to the @bankroll and remove the item from inventory. If the NPC, doesn't own the item it should return a failure message or false or whatever you like.

BONUS: Write `give` and `receive` methods that add or remove an item from inventory without changing the bankroll. Then refactor your `buy` and `sell` methods so they make use of `give` and `receive` (hint: you'll want to use `self`).

Try to do at as much as you can of the following (but we'll mark you (barely) complete if you do all of the above):

* Create a `Weapon` class that inherits from `Item`.
  - Weapons should have a Damage property (measured in hit points of damage dealt).

* Create an `Armor` class that also inherits from `Item`.
  - Armor should have a Damage_Resistance property (measured in hit points of damage reduced).

* Create an `attack` method for your NPCs that takes in a weapon and a target. Attack should  
  - confirm that the weapon exists in the NPCs inventory
  - If it does, call the target's `take_damage` method, passing in the weapon's damage property as the number of hit points of damage dealt

* Modify `take_damage`: If the Being has any armor, take their armor's damage_resistance and subtract it from the the hit points of damage being dealt (provided an attack can't deal negative damage if damage_resistance > damage inflicted)

* Make weapons and armor more functional by creating a new hash called `@equipped_items`, which has `weapon` and `armor` properties. Add in `equip_item` and `unequip_item` methods that will take an item from inventory and add it to the equipped_items hash as weapon or armor appropriately (those methods should make sure you have the item in inventory!). The `equip_item` method should, in addition, call `self.unequip_item` if there was an item equipped in that slot already. Your `attack` method should now automatically use the `@equipped_items[:weapon]` to deal damage (you can't attack with a weapon you haven't equipped and your `take_damage` method should automatically use the `@equipped_items[:armor]` to resist damage (you can't use armor you're not wearing!).

* Improve your armor by letting characters equip multiple pieces of armor (e.g., a helmet, breastplate, leggings, etc.). Create a new instance variable called `@total_damage_resistance` which is equal to the sum of all the damage resistances of all the armor that's equipped. Create a new method called `calculate_damage_resistance` that figures out this sum. Call that method whenever an item is equipped or unequipped. Use `@total_damage_resistance` in your `take_damage` method to figure out how much damage the character takes.

* Use your imagination !!!
