# SQL Fun!

TWO WEEKS LEFT!

Draw out an ERD for a new social network app for GA students you're building called GAcebook. I suggest you read this markdown all the way through before beginning!

1. It MUST have the following tables. I leave it to you to deduce the correct relationships between them AND what pieces of information you would store in each table:

* Users
  - Users need to be able to 'friend' one another -- how would you handle that?
* Posts
* Likes
* Comments

Take a picture of your final ERD and paste the file in your homework folder.

2. List out the structured relationships between:
  Users and other Users
  Users and Posts
  Posts and Likes
  Comments and Posts
  Comments and Likes
  Comments and other Comments (in GAcebook, like Facebook, we want to be able to comment on a comment!)

3. Your Users table must contain at least ten fields of data (at a minimum). In addition to `first_name` and `last_name` you should include `date_of_birth`, `gender`, `relationship_status`, and `interested_in` along with whatever other information you think appropriate.  List the fields you'd include, and their data types (including for the fields above):

Do the same for the other tables. Include any many:many join tables that will be needed, as well:


4. Booting up SQLite (alternatively you can install and use PostgreSQL as per Liza's sql-practice.md), and following Syed's instructions in class and following the syntax he used, create your database from the terminal! Reference the sqlite tutorial Syed slacked out: http://www.sqlitetutorial.net/ Create, with all fields filled in :
  * (at least) 5 Users
  * (at least) 10 Posts (min 1 per User)
  * at least 5 Friendship relationships between Users (each User must have at least 1 friend; at least 2 Users must have multiple friends)
  * At least one Comment per Post
  * At least one Like per Post (at least 2 Posts must have 2+ Likes)
  * At least 1 Like for 5 Comments (at least 2 Comments must have 2+ Likes)
  * At least 5 Comments on other Comments

5. What are the SQL commands to:
  * Find all Users
  * Change a User's name to "Donald Drumpf"
  * Select all Users who are over 25 years old
  * Find all Users who have written at least 2 Posts
  * Update a Comment of your choice (new content of your choice)
  * Perform at least 3 other SQL queries, at least two of which must involve a Join. List them below:
