# HOMEWORK
Ruby 101 Quiz! Review Liza's cheatsheets and/or the videos on Shorty's playlist if you're not sure of any of these.


**QUESTIONS**
1. What is the repl we use for executing Ruby code right from our command line?**ANSWER:** Pry

2. What are the Ruby commands to print things to the screen and get user input? **ANSWER:** `puts`

3. How do we run a Ruby file from the command line?
**ANSWER:** `load '/pathtofile/myrubyfile.rb'`

4. Write a program that prints "Hello World" 20 times to the screen. (Re-watch the video if you're not sure how.)
**ANSWER:** `puts "Hello Word" * 20`

5. How do we create a variable in Ruby vs. in JavaScript?
**ANSWER:**
`animal = cat puts "The animal is #{animal}"`

6. What happens if we try to multiply a string times a number in Ruby? In JavaScript?
**ANSWER:** It will return to you however many times based on the number for example.
`"hell word" * 10`
It will return hello world ten times.

7. How do we check out what datatype something is in Ruby?
**ANSWER:** Use `.class`

8. What datatypes are the following things in Ruby? In JavaScript? (If the JS equivalent has a different name or term, what's that equivalent?)
* "ethan" -- string
* 5.6 -- float
* 420 -- fixedNum
* false -- boolean
* true --  boolean
* nil -- undifined
* [7,8,9] -- array
* { "teachers": ["syed", "liza"] } -- hash
* :teachers -- symbol

9. Given the following array, answer the questions below. If the answer would be *different* in JavaScript, what is it?
```ruby
my_array = ["taco", "banana", ["pumpkin", "butter"]]```

  * How do I access "taco"?  `my_array[0]`
  * How do I access "pumpkin"?  `my_array[2] -  my_array[2][0]`
  * What is the value of `my_array[6]? nil`

10. Given the following hash, answer the questions below.
```ruby
my_hash = {
  teachers: [
    "liza",
    "syed",
    "ethan"
    ],
  class_name: "wdi-robots",
  class_status: "awesome",
  class_size: 22
}
```

  * How do I access the list of `teachers`? `[:teachers]`
  * How is the answer to the prior question different than if `my_hash` were a JavaScript object like we're familiar with? `my_hash.teachers`

11. JavaScript and Ruby both "assign by reference". What does this mean?
```ruby
my_var = "hello dudes and dudettes"
```
JS: `var color = blue` Ruby: `color = blue`

12. What is the value of `my_var[2]` in Ruby? In JS? What is the value of `my_var[-2]` in each language? What about `my_var[-77]`?
**ANSWER:** `my_var[2]` is `and` `my_var[-2]` is `nil` `my_var[-77]` is `nil`

13. `my_var[3] = "p"` What is the new value of `my_var`?
**ANSWER:**

14. `my_var[3] = "baba"` What is the new value of `my_var`? Can we run this command in JS? (Try it!)
`"helbabao dudes and dudettes"`
**ANSWER:**

15. How do I get the length of `my_var`?
`my_var.length`
**ANSWER:**

16. what is the value of `my_var[5, 9]` and `my_var[5..9]`?
`' dudes an'` `'dude'`
**ANSWER:**

17. For arrays, what do `push`, `pop`, `shift`, and `unshift` do in Ruby and what do they return?

push - pushes things to front of array
pop - takes out last one from array
shift - moves the first one from the front of the array
unshift - adds something to the front of array
**ANSWER:**


18. What do `reverse`, `shuffle`, and `sample` do?
reverses - reverses an array or string
shuffle - puts array in random order
sample - outputs a random value
**ANSWER:** `reverse` the order. `shuffle`puts the element in random order. `sample` picks a random element.


19. How do we "shovel" something onto an array or string?
**ANSWER:** `<<`


20. What sort of entity in JavaScript is a Ruby Hash *sort of* like?
**ANSWER:** Objects

21. What can we use as a key in a Ruby Hash? Can we use strings? Fixnums? Floats? Arrays? Other Hashes?

**ANSWER:** We can use all of them.

22. What will the following commands result in?
  * `a = Array.new[3]`? - ` [nil, nil, nil]`
  * `b = Array.new[3, false]`? - `[false, false, false]`
  * `c = Hash.new` - `{}`
  * `d = Hash.new(6)` - `{}`

23. How do I get the keys of a hash? The values?

**ANSWER:** `.key` & `.value`

24. How do we comment in Ruby?

**ANSWER:** `#`

25. What are the ways to execute a file in Ruby?
**ANSWER:** `load /anyfilename.rb`

26. Define a method that will print "hello world" to the screen. Run it. What's different about calling a method in Ruby vs. a function in JS?

**ANSWER:** `def hello_world puts "hello world" end` In JS it would be `f` the difference is there is no equal sign or parenthesis, and you don't call it. JS: `function helloWorld(){
  console.log("Hello World");
  }`
  Honestly, there is just alot more going on in JS then in Ruby.

27. Define a method that take two parameters and returns the sum of their squares. Run it. Again, what can we do differently in Ruby here when we call it than in JS?

28. How do we assign default values to parameters?
**ANSWER:** `def a_method(a,b) end`

29. What is an options hash?
**ANSWER:** options hash is an argument of a method which is last. It has a default value of `{}`.

30. Write a method that takes an options hash. It should also take two params, num_one and num_two. If the options hash has `add: true` in it, it will return the sum of the number; if it has `subtract: true` it will return num_one - num_two, and if it has `multiply: true` it will multiply them.
**ANSWER:**
`def num_method(num_one, num_two, ops = {}) if ops[:add] return num_one + num_two elsif ops[:subtract] return num_one - num_two else ops[:multiply] return num_one * num_two end end`

31. What is a symbol? Why might we choose to use a symbol as a key in a hash instead of a string?
**ANSWER:** anything with a colon, so e.g. `:symbol`, is used more in keys because they are immutable.

32. What is the `=>` notation in Ruby hashes? Conversely, what does that same notation denote in JS?
**ANSWER:** for ruby it shows what value the symbol has, in JS it is used as an arrow function

33. Compare and contrast Ruby and JS conditionals. What is the Ruby versions of JavaScript's `else if`? What are the other differences between JS and Ruby conditionals?
**ANSWER:** In Ruby you also don't need the parenthesis for the true statements. However, in JS it's proper syntax.

34. How does `unless` work?

**ANSWER:** `unless`, expressions are used for reverse conditional execution.


35. What will the following print to the console?

```ruby
def sam_duffy
  age = 18
  while age < 21
    puts "sam is too young to drink"
    age += 1
  end
  puts "congrats sam you can have a beer now!"
end
```
**ANSWER:** `sam is too young to drink sam is too young to drink sam is too young to drink congrats sam you can have a beer now!`

36. How do `while`, `unless`, and `loop do` work?

**ANSWER:** `while`, the code is executed while the condition is true.
`unless`, the code is not executed (it's the opposite of while)

37. Why does Shorty say Ruby programmers typically avoid `for` loops?

**ANSWER:** `for` loops don't create their own scope.

38. Write a method that puts all elements of an array to the console.

**ANSWER:**
`array = [3,4,5] arr.each do |el| puts el end end`
